General API structure

The general

entry point

 to the

rc_visard NG

's API is "http://<host>/api/", where "<host>" is either the device's
IP address or its

host name

 as known by the respective DHCP server, as explained in

network configuration

. Accessing this entry point with a web browser lets the user explore
and test the full API during run-time using the

Swagger UI

 .

For actual HTTP requests, the

current API version is appended

 to the entry point of the API, i.e., "http://<host>/api/v2". All data
sent to and received by the REST-API follows the JavaScript Object
Notation (JSON). The API is designed to let the user

create, retrieve, modify, and delete

 so-called

resources

 as listed in

Available resources and requests

 using the HTTP requests below.

    Request type  Description  GET  Access one or more resources and
return the result as JSON.  PUT  Modify a resource and return the
modified resource as JSON.  DELETE  Delete a resource.  POST  Upload
file (e.g., license or firmware image).

Depending on the type and the specific request itself,

arguments

 to HTTP requests can be transmitted as part of the

path

 (

URI

) to the resource, as

query

 string, as

form data

, or in the

body

 of the request. The following examples use the command line tool

curl

, which is available for various operating systems. See

https://curl.haxx.se

.

Get a node's current status; its name is encoded in the path (URI)
curl -X GET 'http://<host>/api/v2/pipelines/0/nodes/rc_stereomatching'

Get values of some of a node's parameters using a query string  curl
-X GET 'http://<host>/api/v2/pipelines/0/nodes/rc_stereomatching/para
meters?name=minconf&name=maxdepth'

Set a node's parameter as JSON-encoded text in the body of the request
curl -X PUT --header 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '[{"name":
"mindepth", "value": 0.1}]'
'http://<host>/api/v2/pipelines/0/nodes/rc_stereomatching/parameters'

As for the responses to such requests, some common return codes for
the

rc_visard NG

's API are:

    Status Code  Description  200 OK  The request was successful; the
resource is returned as JSON.  400 Bad Request  A required attribute
or argument of the API request is missing or invalid.  404 Not Found
A resource could not be accessed; e.g., an ID for a resource could not
be found.  403 Forbidden  Access is (temporarily) forbidden; e.g.,
some parameters are locked while a GigE Vision application is
connected.  429 Too many requests  Rate limited due to excessive
request frequency.

The following listing shows a sample response to a successful request
that accesses information about the "rc_stereomatching" node's
"minconf" parameter:

   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-Length: 157

   {
       "name": "minconf",
       "min": 0,
       "default": 0,
       "max": 1,
       "value": 0,
       "type": "float64",
       "description": "Minimum confidence"
   }

Note: The actual behavior, allowed requests, and specific return
  codes depend heavily on the specific resource, context, and action.
  Please refer to the

  rc_visard NG

  's

  available resources

   and to each

  software module's

   parameters and services.

Available resources and requests

The available REST-API resources are structured into the following
parts:

/nodes  Access the rc_visard NG's global Database modules \:(Section
\ref{database_modules:sect-database-modules}) with their run-time
status, parameters, and offered services, for storing data used in
multiple modules, such as load carriers, grippers and regions of
interest.

/pipelines  Access to the status and configuration of the camera
pipelines. There is always only one camera pipeline with number 0.

/pipelines/0/nodes  Access the rc_visard NG's 3D-camera, navigation,
detection and configuration software modules \:(Section \ref{modules
:sect-modules}) with their run-time status, parameters, and offered
services.

/templates  Access the object templates on the rc_visard NG.

/system  Access the system state, set network configuration,  and
manage licenses as well as firmware updates.

/userspace  Access the UserSpace on the rc_visard NG.

/logs  Access the log files on the rc_visard NG.

