UserSpace

The UserSpace enables users to deploy and manage containers running on
the

rc_visard NG

. Standalone containers and docker-compose stacks are supported.

Note: Familiarity with Docker containers is required.

If available and enabled, the UserSpace can be accessed in the

Web GUI

 in the menu under

UserSpace

. This page shows the running apps and containers with their current
state and health, in case a health-check is available. Each container
lists the published ports. If their protocol is http or https, these
containers can be accessed directly in the Web GUI.

Configuration

If the UserSpace is enabled for the first time, a user for the
portainer UI needs to be created: In the

Web GUI

 navigate to

UserSpace

 and click on

Manage UserSpace Apps

. Then, register a user account for the administrator. It is required
to complete this step within five minutes after booting the

rc_visard NG

.

Note: The UserSpace is not enabled by default and can for security
  reasons only be enabled/disabled or reset via the Web GUI by placing
  the Roboception UserSpace Key QR code in front of the camera, for
  security reasons.

Configure UserSpace via the Web GUI

To configure the UserSpace via the

Web GUI

, navigate to

UserSpace

 and click on Configure UserSpace.

Print the Roboception UserSpace Key from

here

 or

https://roboception.com/roboception-userspace-key/

 and place it in front of the camera  so that it is completely visible
in both, left and right camera images.

Use the buttons to enable/disable or reset the UserSpace. Resetting
will delete all containers, volumes, and the portainer configuration,
including secrets and users, and cannot be undone.

Configure HTTP proxy

If your organization uses a proxy server to connect to the internet,
you need to configure this proxy server for Docker and portainer in
order to pull container images stored in container registries like
Docker Hub and pull git repositories in portainer. These proxy
settings apply only to Docker and portainer itself, not to the apps
running in containers.

Usually this also means that you need to trust the CA certificate of
the proxy server in order to use HTTPS connections.

Both can be configured via

Web GUI

 under

UserSpace

 and then Configure UserSpace.

View running applications

UserSpace information including running apps and their published ports
can be queried via

REST-API userspace endpoint

 or viewed in the

Web GUI

 in the menu under

UserSpace

.

Container labels "org.opencontainers.image.XXX" can be used to provide
additional information to the API which is also shown in the Web GUI,
see

REST-API UserSpaceContainer definition

.

Network access to UserSpace applications

To access containers via network, the container ports need to be
published to host ports.

If a container provides a web interface via http or https, use
container labels to show a button in the Web GUI to open that
directly:

com.roboception.app.http: all exposed TCP ports use http

com.roboception.app.https.port=1234,5678: comma separated list with
https ports

Interfaces

Docker containers managed in the UserSpace can use the public
interfaces of the

rc_visard NG

. In particular, Docker containers can access synchronized image sets
via

gRPC

 and can call the

REST-API interface

. The

rc_visard NG

 (the host) can be accessed under the Docker bridge IP (in default
Docker bridge network *172.17.0.1*).

Restrictions

Some restrictions for containers apply:

Containers cannot be privileged.

No access to the host network (a Docker bridge network is used
instead).

Only paths inside cloned git repositories with a docker-compose stack
can be mounted, all other host paths cannot be mounted.

Host devices cannot be accessed. This includes e.g. USB and GPU
devices.

Well known and internally used ports on the host cannot be bound. This
includes ports below 1024, ports from 4200 to 4299 and the ports 2342,
2343, 2344, 2345, 3956, 4840, 5353, 6379, 7000, 7001, 7002, 7003,
9100, 9118, 9256, 9445, 9446, 11311, 22350, 22352, 50010, 50051,
50052, 50053 and 50054.
