Camera calibration

The camera calibration module is a base module which is available on
every

rc_visard NG

.

To use the camera as measuring instrument, camera parameters such as
focal length, lens distortion, and the relationship of the cameras to
each other must be exactly known. The parameters are determined by
calibration and used for image rectification (see

Rectification

), which is the basis for all other image processing modules.

The

rc_visard NG

 is calibrated at production time. Nevertheless, checking calibration
and recalibration might be necessary if the

rc_visard NG

 was exposed to strong mechanical impact.

The camera calibration module is responsible for checking calibration
and calibrating.

Self-calibration

The camera calibration module automatically runs in self-calibration
mode at a low frequency in the background. In this mode, the

rc_visard NG

 observes the alignment of image rows of both rectified images. A
mechanical impact, such as one caused by dropping the

rc_visard NG

, might result in a misalignment. If a significant misalignment is
detected, then it is automatically corrected. After each reboot and
after each correction, the current self-calibration offset is reported
in the camera module's log file (see

Downloading log files

) as:

   "rc_stereocalib: Current self-calibration offset is 0.00, update
   counter is 0"

The update counter is incremented after each automatic correction. It
is reset to 0 after manual recalibration of the

rc_visard NG

.

Under normal conditions, such as the absence of mechanical impact on
the

rc_visard NG

, self-calibration should never occur. Self-calibration allows the

rc_visard NG

 to work normally even after misalignment is detected, since it is
automatically corrected. Nevertheless, checking camera calibration
manually is recommended if the update counter is not 0.

Calibration process

Manual calibration can be done through the

Web GUI

  under Configuration â€£ Camera Calibration. This page provides a
wizard to guide the user through the calibration process.

Note: Camera calibration is normally unnecessary for the

  rc_visard NG

   since it is calibrated at production time. Therefore, calibration
  is only required after strong mechanical impacts, such as occur when
  dropping the

  rc_visard NG

  .

During calibration, the calibration grid must be detected in different
poses. When holding the calibration grid, make sure that all black
squares of the grid are completely visible and not occluded in both
camera images. A green check mark overlays each correctly detected
square. The correct detection of the grid is only possible if all of
the black squares are detected. Some of the squares not being
detected, or being detected only briefly might indicate bad lighting
conditions, or a damaged grid. A thick green border around the
calibration grid indicates that it was detected correctly in both
camera images.

Calibration settings

The quality of camera calibration heavily depends on the quality of
the calibration grid. Calibration grids can be obtained from
Roboception.


In the first step, the calibration grid must be specified. The

Next

 button proceeds to the next step.

Verify calibration

In the next step, the current calibration can be verified. To perform
the verification, the grid must be held such that it is simultaneously
visible in both cameras. When the grid is detected, the calibration
error is automatically computed and the result is displayed on the
screen.


Note: To compute a meaningful calibration error, the grid should be
  held as close as possible to the cameras. If the grid only covers a
  small section of the camera images, the calibration error will
  always be less than when the grid covers the full image. For this
  reason, the minimal and maximal calibration error during
  verification are shown in addition to the calibration error at the
  current grid position.

The typical calibration error is below 0.2 pixels. If the error is in
this range, then the calibration procedure can be skipped. If the
calibration error is greater, the calibration procedure should be
performed to guarantee full sensor performance. The button

Next

 starts the procedure.

Warning: A large error during verification can be due to
  miscalibrated cameras, an inaccurate calibration grid, or wrong grid
  width or height. In case you use a custom calibration grid, please
  make sure that the grid is accurate and the entered grid width and
  height are correct. Otherwise, manual calibration will actually
  decalibrate the cameras!

Calibrate

The camera's exposure time should be set appropriately before starting
the calibration. To achieve good calibration results, the images
should be well-exposed and motion blur should be avoided. Thus, the
maximum auto-exposure time should be as short as possible, but still
allow a good exposure. The current exposure time is displayed below
the camera images as shown in

Fig. 44

.

Full calibration consists of calibrating each camera individually
(monocalibration) and then performing a stereo calibration to
determine the relationship between them. In most cases, the intrinsic
calibration of each camera does not get corrupted. For this reason,
monocalibration is skipped by default during a recalibration, but can
be performed by clicking Perform Monocalibration in the

Calibrate

 tab. This should only be done if the result of the stereo calibration
is not satisfactory.

Stereo calibration

During stereo calibration, both cameras are calibrated to each other
to find their relative rotation and translation.

The camera images can also be displayed mirrored to simplify the
correct positioning of the calibration grid.

First, the grid should be held as close as possible to the camera and
very still. It must be fully visible in both images and the cameras
should look perpendicularly onto the grid. If the grid is not
perpendicular to the line of sight of the cameras, this will be
indicated by small green arrows pointing to the expected positions of
the grid corners (see

Fig. 43

).


The grid must be kept very still for detection. If motion blur occurs,
the grid will not be detected. All grid cells that are drawn onto the
image have to be covered by the calibration grid. This is visualized
by filling the covered cells in green (see

Fig. 44

).

For the

rc_visard NG

 all cells can be covered at once by holding the grid close enough.


Note: If the check marks on the calibration grid all vanish, then
  either the camera does not look perpendicularly onto the grid, or
  the grid is too far away from the camera.

Once all grid cells are covered, they disappear and a single far cell
is visualized. Now, the grid should be held as far as possible from
the cameras, so that the small cell is covered. Arrows will indicate
if the grid is still too close to the camera. When the grid is
successfully detected at the far pose, the cell is filled in green and
the result can be computed (see

Fig. 45

).


If stereo calibration yields an unsatisfactory calibration error, then
calibration should be repeated with monocalibration (see next Section

Monocalibration

).

Monocalibration

Monocalibration is the intrinsic calibration of each camera
individually. Since the intrinsic calibration normally does not get
corrupted, the monocalibration should only be performed if the result
of stereo calibration is not satisfactory.

Click Perform Monocalibration in the

Calibrate

 tab to start monocalibration.

For monocalibration, the grid has to be held in certain poses. The
arrows from the grid corners to the green areas indicate that all grid
corners should be placed inside the green areas. The green areas are
called sensitive areas. The

Size of Sensitive Area

 slider can control their size to ease calibration. However, please be
aware that increasing their size too much may result in slightly lower
calibration accuracy.

Holding the grid upside down is a common mistake made during
calibration. Spotting this in this case is easy because the green
lines from the grid corners into the green areas will cross each other
as shown in

Fig. 46

.


Note: Calibration might appear cumbersome as it involves holding the
  grid in certain predefined poses. However, these poses are required
  to ensure an unbiased, high-quality calibration result.

The monocalibration process involves five poses for each camera as
shown in

Fig. 47

.


After the corners or sides of the grid are placed on top of the
sensitive areas, the process automatically shows the next pose
required. When the process is finished for the left camera, the same
procedure is repeated for the right one.

Continue with the guidelines given in the previous Section

Stereo calibration

.

Storing the calibration result

Clicking the Compute Calibration button finishes the process and
displays the final result. The indicated result is the mean
reprojection error of all calibration points. It is given in pixels
and typically has a value below 0.2.

Pressing Save Calibration applies the calibration and saves it to the
device.

Note: The given result is the minimum error left after calibration.
  The real error is definitely not less than this, but could in theory
  be larger. This is true for every camera-calibration algorithm and
  the reason why we enforce holding the grid in very specific poses.
  Doing so ensures that the real calibration error cannot
  significantly exceed the reported error.

Warning: If a hand-eye calibration was stored on the

  rc_visard NG

   before camera calibration, the hand-eye calibration values could
  have become invalid. Please repeat the hand-eye calibration
  procedure.

Parameters

The module is called "rc_stereocalib" in the REST-API.

Note: The camera calibration module's available parameters and
  status values are for internal use only and may change in the future
  without further notice. Calibration should only be performed through
  the Web GUI as described above.

Services

Note: The camera calibration module's available service calls are
  for internal use only and may change in the future without further
  notice. Calibration should only be performed through the Web GUI as
  described above.
