Web GUI

The

rc_visard NG

's Web GUI can be used to test, calibrate, and configure the device.

Accessing the Web GUI

The Web GUI can be accessed from any web browser, such as Firefox,
Google Chrome, or Microsoft Edge, via the

rc_visard NG

's IP address. The easiest way to access the Web GUI is to simply
double click on the desired device using the "rcdiscover-gui" tool as
explained in

Discovery of rc_visard NG devices

.

Alternatively, some network environments automatically configure the
unique host name of the

rc_visard NG

 in their Domain Name Server (

DNS

). In this case, the Web GUI can also be accessed directly using the

URL

 "http://<host-name>" by replacing "<host-name>" with the device's
host name.

For Linux and Mac operating systems, this even works without DNS via
the multicast Domain Name System (

mDNS

), which is automatically used if ".local" is appended to the host
name. Thus, the URL simply becomes "http://<host-name>.local".

Exploring the Web GUI

The Web GUI's dashboard page gives the most important information
about the device and the software modules.


The page's side menu permits access to the individual pages of the

rc_visard NG

's Web GUI:

Camera

   shows a live stream of the rectified camera images. The frame rate
   can be reduced to save bandwidth when streaming to a GigE VisionÂ®
   client. Furthermore, exposure can be set manually or automatically.
   See

   Parameters

    for more information.

Depth Image

   shows a live stream of the left rectified, disparity, and
   confidence images. The page contains various settings for depth-
   image computation and filtering. See

   Parameters

    for more information.

Modules

   gives access to the detection modules of the

   rc_visard NG

    (see

   Detection modules

   ).

Configuration

   gives access to the configuration modules of the

   rc_visard NG

    (see

   Configuration modules

   ).

Database

   gives access to the database modules of the

   rc_visard NG

    (see

   Database modules

   ).

System

   gives access to general settings, device information and to the log
   files, and permits the firmware or the license file to be updated.

Note: Further information on all parameters in the Web GUI can be
  obtained by pressing the

  Info

   button next to each parameter.

Web GUI access control

The Web GUI has a simple mechanism to lock the UI against casual and
accidental changes.

When enabling Web GUI access control via the

System

 page, you will be asked to set a password. Now the Web GUI is in a
locked mode indicated by the lock symbol in the top bar. All pages,
camera streams, parameters and detections can be inspected as usual,
but changes are not possible.

To temporarily unlock the Web GUI and make changes, click the lock
symbol and enter the password. While enabling or disabling Web GUI
access control affects anyone accessing this

rc_visard NG

, the unlocked state is only valid for the browser where it was
unlocked and indicated by the open lock symbol. It is automatically
locked again after 10 minutes of inactivity.

Web GUI access control can also be disabled again on the

System

 page after providing the current password.

Warning: This is not a security feature! It only locks the Web GUI
  and not the REST-API. It is meant to prevent accidental and casual
  changes e.g. via a connected screen.

Note: In case the password is lost, this can be disabled via the
  REST-API

  delete ui_lock

  .

Downloading camera images

The Web GUI provides an easy way to download a snapshot of the current
scene as a .tar.gz file by clicking on the camera icon below the image
live streams on the

Camera

 page. This snapshot contains:

the rectified camera images in full resolution as .png files,

a camera parameter file containing the camera matrix, image
dimensions, exposure time, gain value and the stereo baseline,

the current IMU readings as imu.csv file,

a pipeline_status.json file containing information about all 3D-
camera, detection and configuration nodes running on the rc_visard NG,

a backup.json file containing the settings of the rc_visard NG
including grippers, load carriers and regions of interest,

a system_info.json file containing system information about the
rc_visard NG.

The filenames contain the timestamps.

Downloading depth images and point clouds

The Web GUI provides an easy way to download the depth data of the
current scene as a .tar.gz file by clicking on the camera icon below
the image live streams on the

Depth Image

 page. This snapshot contains:

the rectified left and right camera images in full resolution as .png
files,

an image parameter file corresponding to the left image containing the
camera matrix, image dimensions, exposure time, gain value and the
stereo baseline,

the disparity, error and confidence images in the resolution
corresponding to the currently chosen quality as .png files,

a disparity parameter file corresponding to the disparity image
containing the camera matrix, image dimensions, exposure time, gain
value and the stereo baseline, and information about the disparity
values (i.e. invalid values, scale, offset),

the current IMU readings as imu.csv file,

a pipeline_status.json file containing information about all 3D-
camera, detection and configuration nodes running on the rc_visard NG,

a backup.json file containing the settings of the rc_visard NG
including grippers, load carriers and regions of interest,

a system_info.json file containing system information about the
rc_visard NG.

The filenames contain the timestamps.

When clicking on the mesh icon below the image live streams on the

Depth Image

 page, a snapshot is downloaded which additionally includes a mesh of
the point cloud in the current depth quality (resolution) as .ply
file.

Note: Downloading a depth snapshot will trigger an acquisition in
  the same way as clicking on the "Acquire" button on the

  Depth Image

   page of the Web GUI, and, thus, might affect running applications.
