Hardware specification

Note: The following hardware specifications are provided here as a
  general reference; differences with the product may exist.

Scope of delivery

Standard delivery for an

rc_visard NG

 includes the

rc_visard NG

 sensor and a quickstart guide only. The full manual is available in
digital form and is always installed on the sensor, accessible through
the

Web GUI

, and available at

https://roboception.com/resources/knowledge-base/

.

Note: The following items are not included in the delivery unless
  otherwise specified:

  Couplings, adapters, mounts

  Power supply unit, cabling, and fuses

  Network cabling

  Please refer to

  Accessories

   for suggested third-party cable vendors.

A connectivity kit can be purchased for the

rc_visard NG

. It contains an M12 to RJ45 network cable, 24 V power supply, and a
DC plug to M12 power adapter. Please refer to

Accessories

 for details.

Note: The connectivity kit is intended only for initial setup, not
  for permanent installation in industrial environment.

The following picture shows the important parts of the

rc_visard NG

 which are referenced later in the documentation.


Technical specification

The technical specifications for the

rc_visard NG

 are given in

Table 1

. The frame rate for computing the depth image in High resolution (720
x 540 pixel) is significantly higher when increasing the minimum
distance to 1.2 meters.

Technical specifications for the rc_visard NG        rc_visard NG
160-6  Image resolution  1440 x 1080 pixel, monochrome  Field of view
6 mm lens: Horizontal: 43°, Vertical: 33°  IR Cutoff  650 nm  Depth
image (with Minimum  Distance of 0.5 m)  1440 x 1080 pixel (Full) @ 3
Hz  720 x 540 pixel (High) @ 7 Hz  360 x 270 pixel (Medium) @ 25 Hz
240 x 180 pixel (Low) @ 25 Hz  Depth image (with Minimum  Distance of
1.2 m)  1440 x 1080 pixel (Full) @ 3 Hz  720 x 540 pixel (High) @ 16
Hz  360 x 270 pixel (Medium) @ 25 Hz  240 x 180 pixel (Low) @ 25 Hz
Computing unit  Orin Nano 8GB  Power supply  18 V to 30 V  Cooling
Passive  Baseline  160 mm  Depth range  0.5 m to infinity  Size (W x H
x L)  230 mm x 75 mm x 84 mm  Mass  0.965 kg

The resolutions and accuracies at different distances are given in the
following table.

Resolution and accuracy of the rc_visard NG in millimeters with full
resolution stereo matching and random dot projection on non-reflective
and non-transparent objects.          distance (mm)  rc_visard NG
160-6  lateral resolution (mm)  500  1000  2000  3000  0.3  0.6  1.1
1.7  depth resolution (mm)  500  1000  2000  3000  0.05  0.2  0.9  2.0
Average depth accuracy (mm)  500  1000  2000  3000  0.2  0.9  3.5  7.8

The

rc_visard NG

 can be equipped with on-board software modules for additional
features. These software modules can be ordered from the Roboception
and require a license update.


CAD models of the

rc_visard NG

 can be downloaded from

http://www.roboception.com/download

. The CAD models are provided as-is, with no guarantee of correctness.
When a material property of aluminum is assigned (density of
2.76\mathrm{g\over{cm}^3}), the mass properties of the CAD model are
within 5% of the actual product with respect to weight and center of
mass, and within 10% with respect to moment of inertia.

Environmental and operating conditions

The

rc_visard NG

 is designed for industrial applications. Always respect the storage,
transport, and operating environmental conditions outlined in

Table 3

.

Environmental conditions        rc_visard NG  Storage/Transport
temperature  -25 °C to 70 °C  Operating temperature  0 °C to 50 °C
Relative humidity (non condensing)  20 % to 80 %  Vibration  5 g
Shock  50 g  Protection class  IP54  Others  Free from corrosive
liquids or gases  Free from explosive liquids or gases  Free from
powerful electromagnetic interference

The

rc_visard NG

 is designed for an operating temperature (surrounding environment) of
0 °C to 50 °C and relies on convective (passive) cooling. Unobstructed
airflow, especially around the cooling fins, needs to be ensured
during use. The

rc_visard NG

 should only be mounted using the provided mechanical mounting
interface, and all parts of the housing must remain uncovered. A free
space of at least 10 cm extending in all directions from the housing,
and sufficient air exchange with the environment is required to ensure
adequate cooling. Cooling fins must be free of dirt and other
contamination.

The housing temperature depends on the processing load, sensor
orientation, and surrounding environmental temperatures. When the
sensor's exposed housing surfaces exceed 60°C, the LED at the front
will turn from green to red.

Warning: For hand-guided applications, a heat-insulated handle
  should be attached to the sensor to reduce the risk of burn injuries
  due to skin exposure to surface temperatures exceeding 60°C.

Power-supply specifications

The

rc_visard NG

 needs to be supplied by a DC voltage source. The

rc_visard NG

's standard package doesn't include a  DC power supply. The power
supply contained in the connectivity kit may be used for initial
setup. For permanent installation, it is the customer's responsibility
to provide suitable DC power. Each

rc_visard NG

 must be connected to a separate power supply. Connection to domestic
grid power is only allowed through a power supply certified as EN55011
Class B.

Absolute maximum ratings for power supply            Min  Nominal  Max
Supply voltage  18.0 V  24 V  30.0 V  Max power consumption      25 W
Overcurrent protection  Supply must be fuse-protected to a maximum of
2 A

Warning: Exceeding maximum power rating values may lead to damage of
  the

  rc_visard NG

  , power supply, and connected equipment.

Warning: A separate power supply must power each

  rc_visard NG

  .

Warning: Connection to domestic grid power is allowed through a
  power supply certified as EN55011 Class B only.

Wiring

Cables are not provided with the

rc_visard NG

 standard package. It is the customer's responsibility to obtain the
proper cabling.

Accessories

 provides an overview of suggested components.

Warning: Proper cable management is mandatory. Cabling must always
  be secured to the

  rc_visard NG

   mount with a strain-relief clamp so that no forces due to cable
  movements are exerted on the

  rc_visard NG

  's M12 connectors. Enough slack needs to be provided to allow for
  full range of movement of the

  rc_visard NG

   without straining the cable. The cable's minimum bend radius needs
  to be observed.

The

rc_visard NG

 provides an industrial 8-pin A-coded M12 socket connector for
Ethernet connectivity and an 8-pin A-coded M12 plug connector for
power and GPIO connectivity. Both connectors are located at the back.
The location of both connectors on the

rc_visard NG

 is shown in

Fig. 4

.


Connectors are rotated so that standard 90° angled connectors will
exit horizontally, away from the camera (away from the cooling fins).


Pin assignments for the Ethernet connector are given in

Fig. 6

.


Pin assignments for the power connector are given in

Table 5

.

Pin assignments for the power connector      Pin  Assignment  1  GPIO
In 2  2  Power  3  GPIO In 1  4  GPIO Gnd  5  GPIO Vcc  6  GPIO Out 1
(image exposure)  7  Gnd  8  GPIO Out 2

GPIOs are decoupled by photocoupler.

GPIO Out 1

 by default provides an exposure sync signal with a logic high level
for the duration of the image exposure. All GPIOs can be controlled
via the IOControl module (

IO and Projector Control

). Pins of unsused GPIOs should be left floating.

Warning: It is especially important that during the boot phase

  GPIO In 1

   is left floating or remains low. The

  rc_visard NG

   will not boot if the pin is high during boot time.

GPIO circuitry and specifications are shown in

Fig. 7

. The maximum rated voltage for

GPIO In

 and

GPIO Vcc

 is 30 V.


Warning: Do not connect signals with voltages higher than 30 V to
  the

  rc_visard NG

  .

Mechanical interface

The

rc_visard NG

 offers a mounting-point at the bottom.


For troubleshooting and static applications, the sensor may be mounted
using the standardized tripod thread (UNC 1/4"-20) indicated at the
coordinate-frame origin. For dynamic applications such as mounting on
a robotic arm, the sensor must be mounted with three M4 (metric
standard) 8.8 machine screws tightened to 2.5 Nm and secured with a
medium-strength threadlocking adhesive such as Loctite 243. Maximum
thread depth is 6 mm. The two 4 mm diameter holes may be used for
positioning pins (ISO 2338 4 m6) to ensure precise repositioning of
the sensor.

Warning: For dynamic applications, the

  rc_visard NG

   must be mounted with three M4 8.8 machine screws tightened to 2.5
  Nm torque and secured with threadlocking adhesive. Do not use high-
  strength bolts. The engaged thread depth must be at least 5 mm.

Coordinate frames

The

rc_visard NG

's coordinate-frame origin is defined as the exit pupil of the left
camera lens. This frame is called sensor coordinate frame or camera
coordinate frame. An approximate location for the

rc_visard NG

 is shown in the next image.

The mounting-point frame for the

rc_visard NG

 is defined to be at the bottom, centered in the tripod thread, with
orientation identical to that of the sensor's coordinate frame.

Fig. 9

 shows approximate offsets.


Note: The correct offset between the sensor/camera frame and a robot
  coordinate frame can be calibrated through the

  hand-eye-calibration procedure

  .
