Maintenance

Warning: The customer does not need to open the

  rc_visard NG

  's housing to perform maintenance. Unauthorized opening will void
  the warranty.

Lens cleaning

Glass lenses with antireflective coating are used to reduce glare.
Please take special care when cleaning the lenses. To clean them, use
a soft lens-cleaning brush to remove dust or dirt particles. Then use
a clean microfiber cloth that is designed to clean lenses, and gently
wipe the lens using a circular motion to avoid scratches that may
compromise the sensor's performance. For stubborn dirt, high purity
isopropanol or a lens cleaning solution formulated for coated lenses
(such as the Uvex Clear family of products) may be used.

Camera calibration

The cameras are calibrated during production. Under normal operating
conditions, the calibration will be valid for the life time of the
sensor. High impact, such as occurring when dropping the

rc_visard NG

, can change the camera's parameters slightly. In this case,
calibration can be verified and recalibration undertaken via the Web
GUI (see

Camera calibration

).

Creating and restoring backups of settings

The

rc_visard NG

 offers the possibility to download the current settings as backup or
for transferring them to a different

rc_visard

 or

rc_cube

.

The current settings of the

rc_visard NG

 can be downloaded on the

Web GUI

's

System

 page in the

rc_visard NG


Settings

 section. They can also be downloaded via the

rc_visard NG

's

REST-API interface

 using the

GET /system/backup

 request.

For downloading a backup, the user can choose which settings to
include:

nodes: the settings of all modules (parameters, preferred orientations
and sorting strategies)

load_carriers: the configured load carriers

regions_of_interest: the configured 2D and 3D regions of interest

grippers: the configured grippers (without the CAD elements)

The returned backup should be stored as a .json file.

The templates of the SilhouetteMatch and CADMatch modules are not
included in the backup but can be downloaded manually using the REST-
API or the Web GUI (see

Template API

 and

Template API

).

A backup can be restored to the

rc_visard NG

 on the

Web GUI

's

System

 page in the

rc_visard NG


Settings

 section by uploading the backup .json file. In the

Web GUI

 the settings included in the backup are shown and can be chosen for
restore. The corresponding

REST-API interface

 call is

POST /system/backup

.

Warning: When restoring load carriers, all existing load carriers on
  the

  rc_visard NG

   will get lost and will be replaced by the content of the backup.
  The same applies to restoring grippers and regions of interest.

When restoring a backup, only the settings which are applicable to the

rc_visard NG

 are restored. Parameters for modules that do not exist on the device
or do not have a valid license will be skipped. If a backup can only
be restored partially, the user will be notified by warnings.

Updating the firmware

Information about the current firmware image version can be found on
the

Web GUI

's  System ‣ Firmware & License page. It can also be accessed via the

rc_visard NG

's

REST-API interface

 using the

GET /system

 request. Users can use either the Web GUI or the REST-API to update
the firmware.

Warning: When upgrading from a version prior to 21.07, all of the
  software modules' configured parameters will be reset to their
  defaults after a firmware update. Only when upgrading from version
  21.07 or higher, the last saved parameters will be preserved. Please
  make sure these settings are persisted on the application-side or
  client PC (e.g., using the

  REST-API interface

  ) to request all parameters and store them prior to executing the
  update.The following settings are excluded from this and will be
  persisted across a firmware update:

  the rc_visard NG's network configuration including an optional
  static IP address and the user-specified device name,

  the latest result of the Hand-eye calibration\:(Section
  \ref{handeye_calibration:sect-handeye-calibration}), i.e.,
  recalibrating the rc_visard NG w.r.t. a robot is not required,
  unless camera mounting has changed, and

  the latest result of the Camera calibration\:(Section
  \ref{camera_calibration:sect-camera-calibration}), i.e.,
  recalibration of the rc_visard's stereo cameras is not required.

Step 1: Download the newest firmware version.
   Firmware updates will be supplied from of a Mender artifact file
   identified by its ".mender" suffix.

   If a new firmware update is available for your

   rc_visard NG

    device, the respective file can be downloaded to a local computer
   from

   https://www.roboception.com/download

   .

   Warning: Make sure the firmware version to upload is still within
     the software maintenance period of your

     rc_visard NG

     . You can see the firmware version constraints on the

     rc_visard NG

     's Web GUI on the System ‣ Firmware & License page. If the latest
     firmware version exceeds the software maintenance period, a new
     license must be purchased to use a newer firmware.

Step 2: Upload the update file.
   To update with the

   rc_visard NG

   's REST-API, users may refer to the

   POST /system/update

    request.

   To update the firmware via the Web GUI, locate the System ‣
   Firmware & License page and press the "Upload

   rc_visard NG

    Update" button. Select the desired update image file (file
   extension ".mender") from the local file system and open it to
   start the update.

   Depending on the network architecture and configuration, the upload
   may take several minutes. During the update via the Web GUI, a
   progress bar indicates the progress of the upload.

   Note: Depending on the web browser, the update progress status
     shown in the progress bar may indicate the completion of the
     update too early. Please wait until a notification window opens,
     which indicates the end of the update process. Expect an overall
     update time of at least five minutes.

   Warning: Do not close the web browser tab which contains the Web
     GUI or press the renew button on this tab, because it will abort
     the update procedure. In that case, repeat the update procedure
     from the beginning.

Step 3: Reboot the
rc_visard NG

.
   To apply a firmware update to the

   rc_visard NG

    device, a reboot is required after having uploaded the new image
   version.

   Note: The new image version is uploaded to the inactive partition
     of the

     rc_visard NG

     . Only after rebooting will the inactive partition be activated,
     and the active partition will become inactive. If the updated
     firmware image cannot be loaded, this partition of the

     rc_visard NG

      remains inactive and the previously installed firmware version
     from the active partition will be used automatically.

   As for the REST-API, the reboot can be performed by the

   PUT /system/reboot

    request.

   After having uploaded the new firmware via the Web GUI, a
   notification window is opened, which offers to reboot the device
   immediately or to postpone the reboot. To reboot the

   rc_visard NG

    at a later time, use the

   Reboot

    button on the Web GUI's

   System

    page.

Step 4: Confirm the firmware update.
   After rebooting the

   rc_visard NG

   , please check the firmware image version number of the currently
   active image to make sure that the updated image was successfully
   loaded. You can do so either via the Web GUI's System ‣ Firmware &
   License page or via the REST-API's

   GET /system/update

    request.

   Please contact Roboception in case the firmware update could not be
   applied successfully.

Restoring the previous firmware version

After a successful firmware update, the previous firmware image is
stored on the inactive partition of the

rc_visard NG

 and can be restored in case needed. This procedure is called a

rollback

.

Note: Using the latest firmware as provided by Roboception is
  strongly recommended. Hence, rollback functionality should only be
  used in case of serious issues with the updated firmware version.

Rollback functionality is only accessible via the

rc_visard NG

's

REST-API interface

 using the

PUT /system/rollback

 request. It can be issued using any HTTP-compatible client or using a
web browser as described in

Swagger UI

. Like the update process, the rollback requires a subsequent device
reboot to activate the restored firmware version.

Rebooting the rc_visard NG

An

rc_visard NG

 reboot is necessary after updating the firmware or performing a
software rollback. It can be issued either programmatically, via the

rc_visard NG

's

REST-API interface

 using the

PUT /system/reboot

 request, or manually on the

Web GUI

's

System

 page.

The reboot is finished when the LED turns green again.

Updating the software license

Licenses that are purchased from Roboception for enabling additional
features can be installed via the

Web GUI

's  System ‣ Firmware & License page. The

rc_visard NG

 has to be rebooted to apply the licenses.

Downloading log files

During operation, the

rc_visard NG

 logs important information, warnings, and errors into files. If the

rc_visard NG

 exhibits unexpected or erroneous behavior, the log files can be used
to trace its origin. Log messages can be viewed and filtered using the

Web GUI

's  System ‣ Logs page. If contacting the support (

Contact

), the log files are very useful for tracking possible problems. To
download them as a .tar.gz file, click on Download all logs on the Web
GUI's System ‣ Logs page.

Aside from the Web GUI, the logs are also accessible via the

rc_visard NG

's

REST-API interface

 using the

GET /logs

 and

GET /logs/{log}

 requests.
